DOC-831 Add tasks and update scaling information (#156)
redpanda-data/cloud-docs: modules/develop/pages/connect/configuration/resource-management.adoc

= Manage Pipeline Resources on BYOC and Dedicated Clusters
:description: Learn how to set a resource limit and to manually scale resources for data pipelines.
:page-aliases: develop:connect/configuration/scale-pipelines.adoc

Learn how to set an initial resource limit for a standard data pipeline (excluding Ollama AI components), and how to manually scale the pipeline’s resources to improve performance.

For details about resource allocation for pipelines with Ollama AI components, see <<resource-management-for-ai-components, Resource management for AI components>>.

== Prerequisites

- A running BYOC or Dedicated cluster
- An estimate of the throughput of your data pipeline. You can get some basic statistics by running your data pipeline locally using the xref:redpanda-connect:components:processors/benchmark.adoc[`benchmark` processor].

=== Set an initial resource limit

> When you create a standard data pipeline, you can allocate a fixed amount of compute resources to it using tasks. By default, one task is allocated, which is equivalent to 0.1 CPU and 400 MB of memory, and provides a message throughput of approximately 100 MB/sec.

Reviewer: We can tell 1 MB/sec here, since it highly depends on the type of processing the pipeline does. 100 MB/sec is what we measured using no-op pipelines, but realistically cannot be met by customers.

Author: Updated

> NOTE: If your pipeline exceeds the resource limit, it is immmediately paused and you must contact Redpanda Support.

Author: Will this happen in Production?

Reviewer: No, it's never paused. If it exceeds the CPU limits, it's throttled. If it exceeds the memory limits it's restarted. Bumping tasks in these cases helps, without contacting support.

Author: Updated message to include your points.

To set an initial resource limit:

. Log in to https://cloud.redpanda.com[Redpanda Cloud].

> . Go to the **Connect** page.

Reviewer: First need to go to a (BYOC/Dedicated) cluster already created.

Note that setting more than 1 task is currently not allowed in serverless (standard and pro).

. Select the **Redpanda Connect** tab.
. Click **Create pipeline**.
. Enter details for your pipeline, including a short name and description.
. In the **Tasks** box, leave the default **1** task to experiment with pipelines that create low message volumes. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 tasks (equivalent to 1.8 CPU and 7.2 GB of memory).
. Add your pipeline configuration and click **Create** to run it.

=== Scale resources

View the compute resources allocated to a data pipeline, and manually scale those resources to improve performance or decrease resource consumption.

To view resources already allocated to a data pipeline:

[tabs]
=====
Cloud UI::
+
--
. Log in to https://cloud.redpanda.com[Redpanda Cloud^].
. Go to the cluster where the pipeline is set up.
. On the **Connect** page, select your pipeline and look at the value for **Resources**.
+

> * CPU resources are displayed first, in milliCPU. For example, `1` task is `100M` or 0.1 CPU. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* CPU resources are displayed first, in milliCPU. For example, `1` task is `100m` or 0.1 CPU. 
```

Author: Updated.

* Memory is displayed next in megabytes. For example, `1` task is `400M` is 400 MB.

--
Data Plane API::
+
--
. xref:manage:api/cloud-api-quickstart.adoc#try-the-cloud-api[Authenticate and get the base URL] for the Data Plane API. 
. Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-api.adoc#get-/v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines[`GET /v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines`], which lists details of all pipelines on your cluster by ID. 
+
* Memory (`memory_shares`) is displayed in megabytes. For example, `1` task is `400M` is 400 MB.

> * CPU resources (`cpu_shares`) are displayed milliCPU. For example, `1` task is `100M` or 0.1 CPU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* CPU resources (`cpu_shares`) are displayed milliCPU. For example, `1` task is `100m` or 0.1 CPU.
```

Author: Updated.

--
=====

To scale the resources for a pipeline:

[tabs]
=====
Cloud UI::
+
--
. Log in to https://cloud.redpanda.com[Redpanda Cloud^].
. Go to the cluster where the pipeline is set up.
. On the **Connect** page, select your pipeline and click **Edit**.

> . In the **Tasks** box, update the number of tasks. One task provides a message throughput of approximately 100 MB/sec. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 tasks per pipeline (1.8 CPU and 7.2 GB of memory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the **Tasks** box, update the number of tasks. One task provides a message throughput of approximately 1 MB/sec. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 tasks per pipeline (1.8 CPU and 7.2 GB of memory).
```

Author: Updated.

= Manage Pipeline Resources on BYOC and Dedicated Clusters

> :description: Learn how to set a resource limit and to manually scale resources for data pipelines.
> :page-aliases: develop:connect/configuration/scale-pipelines.adoc
> 
> Learn how to set an initial resource limit for a standard data pipeline (excluding Ollama AI components), and how to manually scale the pipeline’s resources to improve performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:description: Learn how to set an initial resource limit for a standard data pipeline (excluding Ollama AI components) and how to manually scale the pipeline’s resources to improve performance.
:page-aliases: develop:connect/configuration/scale-pipelines.adoc

{description}
```

We can reuse this description like this.

Author: Updated.

For details about resource allocation for pipelines with Ollama AI components, see <<resource-management-for-ai-components, Resource management for AI components>>.

== Prerequisites

> - A running BYOC or Dedicated cluster

Reviewer 3: Add a link to deployment docs.

- An estimate of the throughput of your data pipeline. You can get some basic statistics by running your data pipeline locally using the xref:redpanda-connect:components:processors/benchmark.adoc[`benchmark` processor].

=== Set an initial resource limit

> When you create a standard data pipeline, you can allocate a fixed amount of compute resources to it using tasks. By default, one task is allocated, which is equivalent to 0.1 CPU and 400 MB of memory, and provides a message throughput of approximately 1 MB/sec.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you create a data pipeline, you can allocate it a fixed amount of compute resources using tasks. A task is a basic unit of computation that bundles a specific amount of CPU, memory, and message throughput. By default, pipelines are allocated one task, which includes 0.1 CPU, 400 MB of memory, and a message throughput of approximately 1 MB/sec.
```

Author: I've moved content around a bit and updated it.

[NOTE]
====

> If your pipeline hits:
> 
> - The CPU limit, it is throttled, which reduces the rate at which data is processed.
> - The memory limit, it is restarted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your pipeline reaches the CPU limit, it becomes throttled, reducing the data processing rate. If it reaches the memory limit, the pipeline restarts.
```

Author: Updated.

====

To set an initial resource limit:

. Log in to https://cloud.redpanda.com[Redpanda Cloud].
. On the **Clusters** page, select the cluster where you want to add a pipeline.
. Go to the **Connect** page.
. Select the **Redpanda Connect** tab.
. Click **Create pipeline**.
. Enter details for your pipeline, including a short name and description.

> . In the **Tasks** box, leave the default **1** task to experiment with pipelines that create low message volumes. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 tasks (equivalent to 1.8 CPU and 7.2 GB of memory).

Reviewer 3: It would be nice to have a table on this page that shows the equivalent resources given to each task increment:

| Tasks | CPU | Memory | Throughput

| 1 | 100m | 400 MB| ..

Reviewer 3: It would be worth adding this table to a section that introduces the concept of a task and explains how AI components get assigned 30 tasks by default (AKA GPU tasks).

Reviewer 3: If the UI displays units in milliCPU, we should be consistent about how we refer to CPU limits.

Author: Updated.

 -H 'authorization: Bearer xxx...' \
 -H "content-type: application/json" \
 -d '{"config_yaml":"input:\n generate:\n   interval: 1s\n   mapping: |\n     root.id = uuid_v4()\n     root.   user.name = fake(\"name\")\n     root.user.email = fake(\"email\")\n     root.content = fake(\"paragraph\")\n\npipeline:\n processors:\n   - mutation: |\n       root.title = \"PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL\"\n\noutput:\n kafka_franz:\n   seed_brokers:\n     - seed-j888.byoc.prd.cloud.redpanda.com:9092\n   sasl:\n     - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256\n       password: password\n       username: connect\n   topic: processed-emails\n   tls:\n     enabled: true\n", \
    "description":"Email processor", \ 
    "display_name":"emailprocessor-pipeline", \
    "resources":{ \
        "memory_shares":"800M" \
        "cpu_shares":"200m", \
        } \
      }' 
----
+
A successful response shows the updated resource allocations with the `cpu_shares` value returned in milliCPU.
. Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-api.adoc#get-/v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines[`GET /v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines`] to verify your pipeline resource updates.
--
=====

=== Resource management for AI components

> When you embed Ollama AI components in a pipeline, one GPU task is automatically allocated to the pipeline, which is equivalent to 30 tasks (3 CPU and 12 GB of memory). This is the minimum resource allocation. 

Reviewer 3: I would bring this up to the top where we discuss the idea of tasks

|===
| Number of Tasks | CPU | Memory

| 1
| 0.1 CPU (`100m`)
| 400 MB (`400M`)

| 2
| 0.2 CPU (`200m`)
| 800 MB (`800M`)

| 3
| 0.3 CPU (`300m`)
| 1.2 GB (`1200M`)

| 4
| 0.4 CPU (`400m`)
| 1.6 GB (`1600M`)

| 5
| 0.5 CPU (`500m`)
| 2.0 GB (`2000M`)

| 6
| 0.6 CPU (`600m`)
| 2.4 GB (`2400M`)

| 7
| 0.7 CPU (`700m`)
| 2.8 GB (`2800M`)

| 8
| 0.8 CPU (`800m`)
| 3.2 GB (`3200M`)

| 9
| 0.9 CPU (`900m`)
| 3.6 GB (`3600M`)

| 10
| 1.0 CPU (`1000m`)
| 4.0 GB (`4000M`)

| 11
| 1.1 CPU (`1100m`)
| 4.4 GB (`4400M`)

| 12
| 1.2 CPU (`1200m`)
| 4.8 GB (`4800M`)

| 13
| 1.3 CPU (`1300m`)
| 5.2 GB (`5200M`)

| 14
| 1.4 CPU (`1400m`)
| 5.6 GB (`5600M`)

| 15
| 1.5 CPU (`1500m`)
| 6.0 GB (`6000M`)

| 16
| 1.6 CPU (`1600m`)
| 6.4 GB (`6400M`)

| 17
| 1.7 CPU (`1700m`)
| 6.8 GB (`6800M`)

| 18
| 1.8 CPU (`1800m`)
| 7.2 GB (`7200M`)

|===

> NOTE: For pipelines with embedded Ollama AI components, one GPU task is automatically allocated to the pipeline, which is equivalent to 30 tasks or 3.0 CPU (`3000m`) and 12 GB of memory (`1200M`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: For pipelines with embedded Ollama AI components, one GPU task is automatically allocated to the pipeline, which is equivalent to 30 tasks or 3.0 CPU (`3000m`) and 12 GB of memory (`12000M`).
```
